#summary One-sentence summary of this page.
#labels Featured,Phase-Deploy

= Introduction =

I developed this bot when I was in the org Insanity-inc on RK2. They helped me (especially Capnsfix) refine the bot and add needed features which in the end made it into a very nice bot.

Purpose:
It irritated me that I couldn't see shopping channels from outside of Borealis (bor is the major shopping city for RK2). This bot allows people to see the shopping channels from anywhere in game.

= Details =
Overview:
This bot is actually four 4 bots. I rolled four level 11 neutral toons and placed them in Bor, OA, Rome, and outside Newland City. You choose one of the bots to be the master bot. The master bot would invite the other three bots into it's private channel. Whenever one of the bots saw a message on the shopping channels, it would relay that message into the master bot's private channel. Anyone that joined the master bot's private channel would be able to see both Clan and Omni shopping channel messages from anywhere in game.


Usage:
Roll four level 11 neutral toons and place them in Rome, Bor, OA, and outside Newland City. When I did this I had 'Shpc' (short for shop control), 'Shopomni', 'Shopneut', and 'Shopclan'. Shpc was placed in Newland city.


Choose which bot you want to make the master. I used 'Shpc'. Run shop1.bat (or shop1.sh if you're on *nix) and go through the setup.
Do the same for the other three bots. It doesn't matter which bot you use for shop2, 3 or 4.

Once they are all running you need make sure all modules are enabled for the master bot. The other three bots need to have SHOPPING_MODULE and PRIVATE_GROUP_MODULE (not PRIVATE_CHANNEL_MODULE) enabled and all other modules disabled. If you don't do this you will have problems.

Then you need to send this command to ALL FOUR bots, including the master bot:

/tell bot settings save shopbot_master masterbot

Where masterbot is the name of the bot you chose to be master.

After that you need to add the slave bots to the master bot:

/tell masterbot !adduser slavebot

Do this for each of the three slave bots.

At this point the shopbot is running. To see the shopping messages you can join the master bot:

/tell masterbot !join

You can also add people to the auto invite list so that they get an invite automatically every time they log on:

/tell masterbot !adduser user

(yes it is the same command as when adding the slave bots).


User Commands:
!sm - show who is in the private channel
!spam - this will spam a message to all shopping channels, by default this has a 30 minute lockup for anyone who is less than a raidleader on the bot
!join
!leave

Admin Commands:
!adduser
!remuser
!inviteuser
!kickuser
!spamproxy - this will let you spam the bot but will make it look like someone else spammed it. this is useful when want to spam for someone but don't necessarily want to invite them to the bot.
!filter add content - this will let you add regexes to the bot for messages to ignore. I haven't used the normal shopping channels in a while so i don't know how things are now, but when i made this bot the cred spam was pretty bad and so this let me filter those messages from being relayed. The best way is to add the website that the cred spammer was advertising for, as those don't change often and if they spell it wrong they don't get business.